Well now that we have the character modeled we can turn our attention to UV mapping now and UV mapping
is just the process of creating a two dimensional representation of your 3D objects.
This is needed especially if you're going to be taking your objects your character into a game engine.
Because at this point in time the predominant way to apply textures and materials to game objects is
with 2D images with textures.
And to apply those textures we're going to have to create a uv map.
So what I'm going to do is go through each of the objects and create a u v map for each one and then
ultimately we're going to combine all the objects together and pack all the movie islands into one movie
map.
Now there's a couple of things I want to clean up first here it looks like I have the hair still over
here as a cube.
So what I want to do is click on that.
Call it hair and I'll just take this and drag it up into the character scene collection or the character
collection.
We can probably turn off the reference image here we don't need to see that I don't think.
And also I'll right click on this border and choose join areas and let's click here and join that back
together.
I don't think we need that right there anymore either.
Now one thing I realized is when we were creating the hips or the belt here one thing I didn't do is
make sure I had all quads or all four sided polygons over the entire object.
I'm going to hit the division key here and isolate this.
So if we tap into edit mode and go to face mode we can see we've got faces of four sides here.
So if I select this you can see way down here.
It says edges for so I've got four edges selected here but if I select this face here you can see down
here edges 11 I've got 11 edges on this one face.
And that's probably not a good idea especially as we're going to use a map this.
So what I'm going to do is add a little bit of geometry to this to make sure that all of the polygons
all of the faces are four sided.
So it looks like what I've got here is one two three four five six seven edges along here and I just
need to extend those edges all the way across the object to connect to the other side.
So what I'll do is press control are and let's add a few edges up here on top and I'll just scroll the
mouse wheel and until I get about seven cut and you can see way down here it says number of cuts seven
so if I put that here and then click and click again.
Now we've added seven edges.
All right.
So what we need to do now is connect these up to the existing edges on the bottom.
To do that I'll switch to face mode and I just want to select this one.
Face this in gone multi sided face and I'm going to delete it X faces.
Now what I gonna do is allow blender to recreate that face while connecting up the new edges.
So if I all click this edge here let me switch to edge mode.
I'll click this edge here that selects that edge all the way around.
Now there are a couple of options to fill this with faces.
One thing I can do is just hit the FCC and that will fill it with one big face but that's what we already
had.
So I don't want that or press controls Z to undo that.
Now if we come up here to the face menu I can come down here and choose Phil or alt F and that fills
it with triangles it does the best it can by just filling it with triangles and that's not what I want
either.
So I'll press control Z or lastly we can come over here to the face menu and we can grid fill.
And if we choose this it will grid fill that and attempt to make it all quads.
And since I have the same number of edges on the top as on the bottom it does a pretty good job.
So I'll come over here and do the same thing.
Let's select that base delete it select this edge with alt click and then I'll come back up to face
and grid fill.
And there we go.
So that's not too bad.
That'll that'll probably work pretty well.
And now that we're here dealing with this let's go ahead and movie map it.
So I'll go over to the UVA editing tab right here.
I'll hit the A key to select everything and hit the period key.
And here we have it here.
I need to isolate it in this view as well so I'll tab into object mode and then press that division
key on the number pad.
Again it didn't do it.
Let me hit it.
There we go.
They still need to work on that but let's tab back into edit mode.
And now what let's do is select edges to create the seams that will be cut so that we can split all
these different faces apart and lay them flat here in the movie editor.
So this right here is where we want to lay our two dimensional representation of our object flat here
in this space.
So I'm going to go to edge mode and I'll also click this edge and shift all click these edges and I'm
just going to select these edges all the way around here.
And if we press control e to bring up the edges menu then we can also do that up here as well.
But I'm going to press control e and choose Mark scene and you can see that gives us a red seam here
on the object.
I'll go ahead and do that over here I'll press Alt and click alt shift click as well to select everything
all around there and then I'll press shift and click these edges right along here as well.
So this is just where we're going to cut the object so that we can lay it down flat.
I'll press control e and Mark seam and there we go.
There we have our seams marked and ready for UV mapping.
So let's select everything with the achy oppressed you to bring up the UVA mapping menu here and let's
just click unwrap look down here it says object has non uniform scale and we've seen that before we
know what that means.
That means if we hit the inky over here and go back to object mode this right here we have non uniform
values.
So once again even with UV mapping that can be a problem to solve that let's press control a and apply
the scale.
Now if we go back into edit mode and press you and click unwrap here let's watch what happens over here
in the movie Ed. notice all the pieces are just square instead of being elongated as they are in the
3D object.
So let's hit you and click unwrap and yeah that looks quite a bit better.
So now we've got all of these objects a little bit more the proper scale and size.
We can also come over here to this unwrap panel right here.
Open that up and we can switch the method of unwrapping from Angle based to conform all and see if that
helps at all.
But there really isn't too much of a difference here.
We can also take the margin and we can change this Let's say instead of point 0 0 1 we want point 0
1 right here and that moves these away from each other just a little bit.
So we could do that again or we could change it to point one right here and it expands that out even
further.
So it doesn't really matter at this point in time because ultimately we're going to combine all of them
together all of the pieces together.
All right.
So we have this.
You've mapped.
Now let's hit the division key and think about what we want to do next.
Let's maybe just do this cylinder here so I'll select it hit the division key I'll tap into edit mode
and this looks pretty good the way it is I'll get the key to select everything but this is still the
original u v map of the cylinder.
When we first created it.
If we hit the end key we can see in object mode that once again the scale is non uniform.
So we need to fix this.
Let's press control a and let's apply the scale and then let's tab back into edit mode and then we can
go about marking our seams.
So let's press Alt and click this edge all shift and click.
This edge and now it's press control e and Mark seem all right.
So now that we have those there and let's go ahead and select everything let's press you and unwrap.
There we go now we're seeing it a little bit differently however this should probably be laid out flat
instead of being here in a circle.
So let's maybe select an edge up in the up in the character where we can't see it.
Let's select this edge let's say in press control e and Marcus seen there and what this will do is split
it there so it will lay it out flat instead of in a circle.
All right let's select it all again it you and unwrap and there we go you can see how it's just laid
out flat now because we cut it at this edge.
All right.
So that looks pretty good.
Let's go ahead and tap back into object mode.
Hit the division key and in the next video will continue you'll be mapping the character.